feat(cdp): add docs for transformations (#11105)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/docs/cdp/transformations/index.md

---
title: Realtime transformations
showTitle: true
---

As PostHog data arrives, you can transform it *immediately* before ingestion. You can use this for things like:

- Anonymizing sensitive data
- Enriching events with geo information
- Dropping unnecessary properties
- Writing custom transformations using our Hog programming language
- Filtering out bot traffic
- Much more.. 

> PostHog enables you to transform your events in realtime using a variety of pre-built transformations. Check out the [data pipeline tab](https://us.posthog.com/pipeline/overview) and choose **transformations** to get started.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PostHog enables you to transform your events in realtime using a variety of pre-built transformations. Check out the [data pipelines](https://us.posthog.com/pipeline/overview) tab and choose **transformations** to get started.
```

![Transformations list in PostHog](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/transformation_list_ca5ad86095.png)

Need more flexibility? Our [custom transformations](/docs/cdp/transformations/customizing-transformations) enable you to write your own Hog code to transform events exactly how you want. You can modify, enrich, or filter your events using our powerful Hog programming language.

## Filtering

> Instead of transforming all your PostHog events, you can construct a query that filters by event types, properties, or any SQL statement you can come up with, so that transformations are only applied to the events you care about.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Filters enable you to target your transformations, affecting only the kinds of events you chose. Filter by event type, properties, or any SQL statement you can come up with.
```

![Filtering transformations](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/filters_738b8029fa.png)

## Testing

> The hardest part of setting up transformations is making sure they work as you expect. Every transformation includes a built-in testing interface, enabling you to send real data through your transformation and see exactly how it affects your events.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As you build your transformations, PostHog makes it easy to confirm they do what you expect. Every transformation includes a built-in testing interface, enabling you to instantly send real data through it and verify the results. You can iterate until everything works to your satisfaction.
```

![Transformation testing UI](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/testing_e2e0faf8f3.png)

## Keep an eye on things

Once your transformation is up and running, the **metrics** and **logs** tabs will let you monitor usage and inspect any errors.

![Transformation logs](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/logs_6cb6791b85.png)

![Transformation metrics](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/metrics_ca7bd7dd92.png)

## History

> Every transformation has a history tab that shows you a complete audit trail of changes. You can see who modified the transformation, what changes were made, and when they occurred.

Reviewer: qq: this requires a certain tier of plan, right? Maybe worth a note on that like "If your account has audit history enabled," or some such?

Author: i don't think it is, or is it?

![Transformation history](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/history_97f854fa50.png)

This history helps you:
- Track changes over time
- Understand when and why modifications were made
- See who made specific changes

The history tab is particularly useful when multiple team members are working with transformations, as it provides transparency and accountability for all changes.

## Going deeper

> For complete control of your transformation's behavior, you can view and edit the underlying Hog code that drives it. Experiment with rewriting your transformation's implementation to better address your needs, if the pre-built templates don't quite do the job.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For complete control of your transformation's behavior, you can view and edit the underlying code that drives it. If your needs are more specific than our defaults, try customizing your transformation's implementation. You can write, test, and deploy your own transformation in minutes.
```
